feat: configure ClickHouse backup time (#772)
aiven/aiven-docs: docs/products/clickhouse/howto/configure-backup.md

---

> title: Configure Aiven for ClickHouse® backup scheduling settings

Reviewer: Could we update the title to something like "Configure backup scheduling in Aiven for ClickHouse®" or "Configure Aiven for ClickHouse® backup schedule"? I feel that "scheduling settings" is a bit redundant, since scheduling itself implies configuration or settings

sidebar_label: Configure backups
---

import ConsoleLabel from "@site/src/components/ConsoleIcons";
import RelatedPages from "@site/src/components/RelatedPages";
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Set the time when
[backups](/docs/products/clickhouse/concepts/disaster-recovery#service-backup) are taken
for your Aiven for ClickHouse® service.

## Prerequisites

- Depending on what tools to use for configuring backup settings:
  - [Aiven Console](https://console.aiven.io)
  - [Aiven API](/docs/tools/api)
  - [Aiven CLI](/docs/tools/cli)
- At least one Aiven for ClickHouse service backup to be configured

> :::note

Reviewer: What do you think about moving this note to the Configure backup time section? Right now, the note about resetting settings comes before the steps to configure them, which feels slightly out of order.

> To reset already configured setting to default or to delete them, use the Aiven

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reset or delete configured backup settings, use the Aiven
```

---
title: Configure Aiven for ClickHouse® backup scheduling settings
sidebar_label: Configure backups
---

import ConsoleLabel from "@site/src/components/ConsoleIcons";
import RelatedPages from "@site/src/components/RelatedPages";
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Set the time when
[backups](/docs/products/clickhouse/concepts/disaster-recovery#service-backup) are taken
for your Aiven for ClickHouse® service.

## Prerequisites

- Depending on what tools to use for configuring backup settings:
  - [Aiven Console](https://console.aiven.io)
  - [Aiven API](/docs/tools/api)
  - [Aiven CLI](/docs/tools/cli)
- At least one Aiven for ClickHouse service backup to be configured

:::note

> - Changing or adding some settings causes the service to restart.

Reviewer 2: Just in case: Setting backup hour does not cause a service restart.
In the modal the specific parameters gets a tag, when they trigger a restart.

- To reset already configured setting to default or to delete them, use the

>   Aiven [API](/docs/tools/api) or [CLI](/docs/tools/cli).

Reviewer 2: thanks for the hint!

1. On the service page, click <ConsoleLabel name="backups"/> in the sidebar.
1. On the **Backups** page, click <ConsoleLabel name="actions"/> >
   **Configure backup settings**.
1. In the **Configure backup settings** window:
   1. Click **Add configuration options**.
   1. Add options `backup_hour` and `backup_minute`, and set theirs values.
   1. Click **Save configuration**.
</TabItem>
<TabItem value="api" label="Aiven API">
Call the [ServiceUpdate](https://api.aiven.io/doc/#tag/Service/operation/ServiceUpdate)
endpoint, and add property assignments in the `user_config` object:

```bash{7-8}
curl --request PUT                                                        \
  --url https://api.aiven.io/v1/project/PROJECT_NAME/service/SERVICE_NAME \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer YOUR_BEARER_TOKEN'                      \
  --header 'content-type: application/json'                               \
  --data '{
      "user_config": {
          "backup_hour": BACKUP_HOUR,
          "backup_minute": BACKUP_MINUTE
      }
  }'
```

Replace the following placeholders with meaningful values:

- `SERVICE_NAME`: the name of your service
- `PROJECT_NAME`: the name of your project

> - `BACKUP_HOUR`: the hour when the service backup is started, an integer from `0` to `24`

Reviewer 2: 0 to 23
